---
doc_id: giai_quyet_khieu_nai_sinh_vien
title: Giải quyết khiếu nại sinh viên
---

2025-12-24 VinUniversity - All Rights Reserved 1
STUDENT COMPLAINT PROCEDURE
Reference number : GDL-SAM-007-V2.0
Published date : 24/12/2025
Effective date : 22/12/2025
Applicable Department : VinUniversity Students, Staff and Faculty
Access level : VinUni All
Records of changes
Version Published
Date
Effective
Date
Approved by Decription of changes
1.0 28/02/2025 28/02/2025
Developed by: Student Affairs Management Office
(SAM)
Reviewed by: Associate Vice Provost of Academic
Administration
Approved by: Provost
First release
2.0 24/12/2025 22/12/2025
Developed by: Student Affairs Management Office
Reviewed by: Vice Provost of Academic Administration
Approved by: Provost
Enhances clarity and
reinforces respectful, goodfaith complaint handling for
student-led activities and
events.
2025-12-24 VinUniversity - All Rights Reserved 2
I. PURPOSE
At our University, we are committed to fostering a positive and inclusive environment where students
feel empowered to share their experiences. This policy guideline outlines the process for students to
voice their concerns and seek resolutions, ensuring that all feedback is handled with sensitivity,
promptness, fairness, consistency, and impartiality.
II. SCOPE
1. This procedure applies when a current student wishes to express a complaint, either with the
University’s action or lack of action, or the standard of service provided by or on behalf of the
University.
For the purposes of this procedure, the University includes all Colleges, Departments, Offices, and
units as defined under the University’s official organizational structure, as well as student-led
activities or events that are organized under the University’s governance, supervision, or
endorsement.
2. This procedure MAY be used to make a complaint relating to the following:
- Academic provision (course content; learning resources; facilities; or information provided
about the course/program).
- The standards or quality of services provided by the University or by a third party acting on
behalf of the University.
- The organization and delivery of University-organized or University-supported student
activities and events, where such matters concern service standards, procedures, or
administrative arrangements.
3. This procedure IS NOT used to make a complaint relating to the following:
- An allegation about the behavioral conduct of another student (please refer to the Student
Affairs Regulations).
- An allegation about sexual misconduct of another student, faculty member or staff (please refer
to the Sexual misconduct and response Policy)
- An allegation about the academic misconduct of another student or complaint about the
outcome of an academic misconduct process (please refer to the Academic Integrity Policy).
- complaints about the application, audition, or interview processes (please refer to the
Admissions Regulations for Undergraduate Program Policy).
- A request for a review of a decision made by the University regarding assessment (defined as
a grade appeal and dealt with by the Academic Regulations for Full-Time Undergraduate
Programs).
- Complaints about an investigation or hearing that is being carried out under the University
Procedures before the relevant internal stages have concluded.
III. PRINCIPLES
1. Student complaints should be raised and addressed in a manner that is respectful, constructive, and
made in good faith, with the aim of achieving fair resolution and continuous improvement, in
alignment with the University’s core values of integrity, mutual respect, accountability, and
community well-being.
2025-12-24 VinUniversity - All Rights Reserved 3
2. A genuine complaint is defined as any issue that a student feels is inappropriate to resolve
informally, or they have been unable to resolve informally. Otherwise, the matter of interest is
considered as an enquiry, concern or feedback that can be addressed informally at a local level in
person or in writing. If a student is unsure who to contact to resolve their issue, they should contact
Student Affairs Management Office (SAM) via connect-sam@vinuni.edu.vn.
3. Complainants are expected to:
- Abiding by the expectations under this policy and the Student Affairs Regulations.
- Ensuring that they have genuine grounds for complaint and not making malicious or frivolous
complaints.
- Cooperating with the University to go through the process to seek resolution of complaints,
acting in good faith and showing respect and care.
- Promptly disclosing any actual or potential conflict of interest by all parties.
4. Anonymous complaints will not be considered unless there is in the University’s opinion a
compelling reason to do so.
5. While a complaint is under review through the University’s internal procedures, students are
expected to refrain from actions that may prematurely escalate the matter or exert undue pressure,
including public dissemination or threats of dissemination via social media, in order to prevent
misunderstandings and ensure a fair process for all parties.
IV. TIMINGS
1. The University strives to address all complaints within 40 days of receiving a complete complaint
form, covering all three stages of the process. The University aims to meet the timescales within
these procedures wherever practicable but may vary where there are good reasons to do so or
because of delay. A complainant will be informed of any variation or delay and the reasons for this.
2. Some requests may require the University to take swift action, for example where the issues raised
have detrimental consequences for the Complainant’s mental health or where external time limits
apply.
3. Complaints about members of staff that are dealt with by the Human Resources department’s
procedures might entail an extended timescale. However, the complainant can expect to be notified
of any such extensions.
V. CONFIDENTIALITY, DATA PROTECTION AND NON-RETALIATION
1. All individuals involved in the complaints process (including a complainant, their representative,
any witnesses, and members of staff) are required to respect and adhere to the confidential nature
of the process and of all information relating to a complaint and its handling. Breach of
confidentiality by a complainant, their representative, or by a member of staff may be treated by
the University as misconduct and will be dealt with under the relevant disciplinary procedures.
2. Students who are interviewed, who accompany someone at an interview, or who submit evidence
as part of a complaint investigation will be asked to refrain from discussing the matter with other
members of the University community, in the interests of a fair and uncompromised process.
3. If a student has any requirements or concerns about the confidentiality of their complaint, they
should state it in the Formal Complaint Form and/or discuss it with Student Affairs Management
staff at the time of submitting the complaint.
4. The University prohibits retaliation against individuals who file a complaint in good faith. Any acts
of retaliation will be subject to disciplinary action.
2025-12-24 VinUniversity - All Rights Reserved 4
VI. STUDENT AND STUDENT-RELATED COMPLAINTS PROCEDURE
The Procedure has three stages: (1) Local Resolution, (2) Formal Resolution, and (3) Review.
Stage Steps Description Responsible
party
Timeline
1. Informal
resolution
1 Students are encouraged to first address their concerns directly with the
involved party (e.g., faculty member, staff, peers, or service unit) to
seek an informal resolution.
For complaints related to student-led or student-organized events or
activities, students are encouraged to first raise their concerns directly
with the relevant student organizing committee or event representatives.
The
complainant
& SAM
(when
necessary)
Within 10 working days
2 If direct engagement is uncomfortable or unsuccessful, students may
seek assistance from SAM. SAM will facilitate informal discussion
between the students and the relevant party to define the cause of the
complaint, explore the students’ proposed remedies, file a conclusion
note and share it with the parties involved.
If informal resolution is not appropriate the student should make a
written formal complaint under Stage 2 of these Procedures.
2. Formal
resolution
1 Lodging a formal complaint:
The Student Formal Complaints Form (see Appendix 1 of this
Procedure) must be completed and submitted to connectsam@vinuni.edu.vn
The
complainant
Within 5 working days after
the result of informal
resolution
2 Acknowledgement & screening
The Cse Handler from SAM will acknowledge and review whether it
met the requirements.
SAM Within 48 hours
If the complaint is rejected, an outcome letter will be issued to the
complainants, giving reasons why it will not be taken further.
SAM Within 07 working days
3 Investigation
If a complaint is accepted as a formal complaint under Stage 2, the
complainant will be informed of the identity of the Case Handler. They
Case
Manager
Within 10 working days
2025-12-24 VinUniversity - All Rights Reserved 5
will be given the opportunity to raise an objection to the involvement of
the Case Handler who has been assigned to their complaint.
If a complaint relates to the conduct of a member of staff, the Case
Manager will be assigned by the Human Resources department.
4 Outcome notification
Following completion of the investigation, the Case Manager and SAC
will determine whether the complaint is justified, in whole or in part,
and any remedies to be provided to the complainant.
The Complainant will receive confirmation in writing of the final
decision and the reasons for the decision. Written confirmation must
also be sent to connect-sam@vinuni.edu.vn for record-keeping
purposes.
SAC
3. Review and
escalation
1 If a student is not satisfied with the decision on a formal complaint
reached under Stage 2, they may request an appeal of the decision to the
Student Affairs Management via connect-sam@vinuni.edu.vn
SAM Within 03 working days from
the date of stage 2 formal
complaint decision
2 Upon receipt of a Student Complaint Appeal, the case handler will
acknowledge receipt of the appeal request and consider whether valid
grounds for appeal have been disclosed.
Case
Handler
Within 48 hours of the appeal
being submitted
3 Following consideration of the appeal, Student Affairs Committee
(SAC) may decide on one or more of the following outcomes, to:
- reaffirm the formal complaint decision.
- substitute a new decision and/or any remedies.
- refer the matter back to Stage 2 for fresh investigation and/or
decision by a new Case Manager.
SAC Within 10 days of the date of
submission of the Student
Complaint Appeal Form.
4 The Chair of the Student Affairs Committee (SAC) will inform the
student(s) in writing of the decision, including the reasons for the
decision. This decision is final and marks the completion of the
Procedure.
SAC 