---
doc_id: huong_dan_cho_o_cho_sinh_vien
title: Hướng dẫn cho ở cho sinh viên
---

1
GUIDELINES ON STUDENT ACADEMIC
ACCOMMODATION
Reference number : GDL-SAM-010-V1.0
Published date : 22/07/2026
Effective date : 22/07/2026
Applicable Department : Students, Faculty & Staff
Applicable Department : Public
Records of History
Version Published Date Effective Date Approved by Description of changes
1.0 22/07/2026 22/07/2026
Developed by: Student Affairs Management Office,
Registrar Office.
Reviewed by: Student Affairs Committee, Vice Provost
of Academic Administration.
Approved by: Provost
First release
2
I. PURPOSE
VinUni is committed to providing an inclusive, equitable, and accessible learning environment for all
students. This guideline aims to:
• Ensure that students with documented or substantiated needs are provided with reasonable
academic adjustments
• Remove unnecessary barriers to learning and assessment
• Maintain academic standards, learning outcomes, and academic integrity
• Align with international best practices in inclusive education and student well-being
II. SCOPE
This guideline applies to undergraduate and graduate students, enrolled in academic programs or activities
for credit at VinUni, including those who study on a full-time basis, on exchange, or through other
international agreements.
This guideline applies to all students engaged in academic activities at the university, including classes,
laboratory work, clinical practice, research, examinations, fieldwork, and placements.
III. DEFINITION
Academic Accommodation: refers to reasonable and appropriate adjustments to teaching, learning, or
assessment arrangements that enable students with specific needs to access education on an equitable
basis.
Academic accommodation:
• Support access and participation
• Do not lower academic standards
• Do not modify essential learning outcomes, grading standards or credit requirements
Students with disabilities: Students who are individuals enrolled in the university who have a physical,
sensory, cognitive, mental health, or learning impairment that substantially limits one or more major life
activities, including learning, communicating, or participating in academic programs. Disabilities may be
permanent, temporary, or episodic in nature. This definition aligns with applicable human rights and
accessibility legislation and serves as the basis for determining eligibility for academic accommodation
and support services.
IV. ELIGIBILITY
Students may request Academic Accommodation only under the following valid conditions:
Eligibility Category Examples of Conditions Acceptable Evidence
Long-term
Conditions or
Disabilities
• Physical, sensory,
neurological, or mobility
impairments
• Learning differences or
neurodiversity
• Chronic health conditions
• An original medical report or clinical
summary that explicitly states the
professional diagnosis, supported by
relevant diagnostic reports from a
registered public or international hospital,
ensuring all documents are officially
stamped and signed by a specialist.
• Official disability documentation from a
government agency
• For long-term medical conditions, the
3
medical report must be issued within the
past 6 months.
Mental Health
Conditions
• Anxiety, depression,
stress-related or
psychological conditions
• Other conditions verified
by qualified professionals,
where applicable.
• Medical report from a hospital confirming
need for academic support
• For temporary medical conditions, the
medical report must be issued within the
past 30 days.
Temporary Medical
Conditions
• Serious illness, injury,
surgery, or hospitalization
• Pregnancy-related or postpartum conditions
• Medical report specifying condition and
recovery period
• For temporary medical conditions, the
medical report must be issued within the
past 30 days.
Exceptional or
Compassionate
Circumstances
• Bereavement
• Significant personal or
family crises
• Other circumstances
deemed reasonable by the
University
• Supporting letters from counselor,
advisor, or Student Affairs officer / other
supporting documents.
• Self-declaration with contextual
explanation may be accepted for shortterm or urgent situations, such as
bereavement, family emergencies, or
sudden illness. Repeated requests may be
subject to further review and additional
supporting evidence.
• Other evidence might be required if
applicable
Note:
• All documentation will be treated as strictly confidential
• Evidence is reviewed on a case-by-case basis
• Temporary accommodation may be approved provisionally, pending further documentation
• Submission of false or misleading information may result in action under the Student Code of
Conduct.
V. GUIDING PRINCIPLES
Equity, Not
Advantage
Academic accommodation ensures fair access, not academic advantage.
Reasonableness Accommodation must be reasonable, proportionate, and academically
appropriate.
Confidentiality All personal, medical, and supporting information will be handled with strict
confidentiality.
Individualized
Assessment
Requests are assessed on a case-by-case basis.
Shared
Responsibility
Effective accommodation requires collaboration among students, faculty, and
the University.
4
VI. TYPES OF ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATION
While the below list outlines common types of academic accommodations, specific arrangements may
vary depending on the student's medical profile and learning needs. Final accommodation
recommendations shall be developed by the Student Affairs Management Office, in consultation with the
Registrar Office and, where necessary, the student's treating healthcare professional or qualified specialist.
The relevant academic unit shall determine how the approved accommodations are implemented while
maintaining academic standards and learning outcomes.
Exam & Assessment
Accommodations
1. Extended time for tests and examinations of up to 25% of the total allotted
time
2. Separate or quiet testing environments
3. Scheduled rest breaks during examinations
4. Alternative examination formats (e.g., oral, large print, or electronic),
where academically appropriate and without altering learning outcomes
Classroom &
Instructional
Accommodation
5. Accessible seating arrangements
6. Permission to audio-record lectures, where appropriate
7. Provision of lecture slides or notes in advance, where feasible
8. Reasonable flexibility in attendance requirements, for up to 20% of total
class sessions.
Assignment &
Coursework
Accommodation
9. Reasonable extensions of assignment deadlines, for up to 7 days per
request.
10. Alternative formats for coursework submission (e.g., oral presentation in
place of written submission), provided that essential learning outcomes are
met
Experiential
Learning
Accommodation
11. Reasonable modifications to tasks, schedules, or environments for
internships, laboratories, or field trips
12. Accessible transportation or logistical arrangements, where feasible and
relevant
Academic Safeguard Statement: Academic accommodations shall not fundamentally alter the essential
requirements, learning outcomes, or academic standards of a course or program. Decisions regarding
accommodation that affect assessment methods or experiential learning components shall be made in
consultation with relevant academic units.
The University reserves the right to review accommodation arrangements if there are changes in the
student’s condition, academic program, or course requirements.
VII.VALIDITY PERIOD
The Validity Period defines the specific timeframe during which this policy remains in effect. This section
clarifies when the policy becomes active, how long it is applicable, and any conditions related to its
duration.
1. Interim academic
accommodation
- Interim accommodations are temporary measures granted solely in cases
of medical urgency where immediate support is required to prevent
significant barriers to learning.
- Interim accommodation is approved for up to 02 weeks, during which
students must submit the required documentation to be considered for
ongoing accommodation.
5
- If documentation is not provided within this period, interim
accommodation will expire after 02 weeks unless agreed otherwise.
2. Periodic academic
accommodation
- Periodic accommodation is temporary support approved for a specific
academic term.
- To maintain these accommodations, students must resubmit updated
documentation each semester demonstrating continued need for support.
- Failure to provide the latest evidence before the start of the new term may
result in the accommodation being discontinued.
3. Permanent
academic
accommodation
- Permanent accommodations remain valid for the entirety of the student's
academic career at VinUniversity.
- Students are not required to resubmit their evidence each semester to
review accommodation. However, they are encouraged to schedule a
meeting if there are any changes to their medical documentation or
program of study.
VIII. REQUEST AND APPROVAL PROCESS
Steps Stage Description Responsibl
e Unit(s)
Timeline/notes
1 Submission of
Request
- Student submits a formal
Academic Accommodation Request
to the Student Affairs Management
Office, specifying the
accommodation sought and
providing all relevant supporting
documentation (medical,
psychological, or other
substantiating information where
applicable).
Contact: connectsam@vinuni.edu.vn
*In case of mental health conditions,
please refer to the Mental Health
Counsellor to have a counselling
consultation prior to this process.
Student Based on
individual needs
2 Initial Review,
Eligibility
Assessment and
Preliminary
Accommodation
Recommendation
- Review of request completeness,
eligibility, and urgency.
- Clarification or additional
information may be requested from
the student if needed.
* In case of medical urgency, interim
academic accommodation is
immediately activated.
Student
Affairs
Managemen
t (SAM)
Normally within
05 working days
3 Academic
Consultation (if
required)
- For cases involving assessments,
examinations, attendance
requirements, or learning outcomes,
SAM and
the
Registrar
Conducted on a
need basis
6
the Student Well-being Unit
formally refers the case to the
Registrar’s Office.
- The Registrar consults with
relevant academic units (VPAA,
Program Director, course
coordinator, or AQA) to assess
feasibility and academic alignment.
(REG)
4 Decision &
Approval
- Faculty: Proposal of appropriate
accommodation implementation
based on verification from SAM &
REG
- Program Director: Academic
review & Approval
- Vice Provost for Academic
Administration: Final Approval (if
escalation needed)
College
Leaders,
VPAA
Normally within
03 working days
from the receipt of
complete
documentation
5 Notification to
Student
- Formal written notification to the
student outlining approved
accommodation, duration, and any
conditions attached.
Registrar Normally within
24 hours from the
receipt of decision
6 Notification to
Faculty
- Communication of approved
accommodation to relevant faculty,
TA members and units on a need-toknow basis, without disclosure of
confidential personal or medical
details.
Registrar Prior to
implementation
7 Implementation Faculty members implement
approved accommodations in
teaching, learning, or assessment
activities.
Faculty, TA As specified in the
approval
8 Monitoring &
Follow-up
Monitoring effectiveness of
accommodation; adjustments may
be made if circumstances change or
implementation challenges arise.
Registrar,
SAM &
College
On-going
9 Review or Appeal
(if applicable)
Students may request
reconsideration if new information is
available or circumstances
materially change.
SAM
7
APPENDIX 1: FORMS
A. FORM 1: LETTER OF ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATION
(Faculty Notification Letter)
Date: [DD Month YYYY]
Reference No.: [Case ID]
To: [Course Instructor / Course Coordinator]
Course Code & Title: [Course Code – Course Title]
Semester: [Semester, Academic Year]
Subject: Academic Accommodation Notification
Dear [Title and Name],
This letter is to formally notify you that the student listed below has been approved for Academic
Accommodation in accordance with the University’s Policy on Academic Accommodation.
Student Name: [Student Name]
Student ID: [Student ID]
Following a confidential review by the Student Affairs Management Office and Registrar Office, the
student has been approved for the following accommodation(s) for the above-mentioned course(s):
Approved Accommodations:
[e.g., Extended time for examinations (25% additional time)]
[e.g., Permission to record lectures]
[e.g., Flexible attendance arrangements, where applicable]
[e.g., Alternative assessment format, subject to meeting essential learning outcomes]
These accommodations are intended to ensure equitable access to learning and assessment and do not
alter the academic standards or learning outcomes of the course.
Please note:
• This notification is provided on a need-to-know basis.
• No personal, medical, or sensitive information is disclosed.
• If you foresee any academic or logistical challenges in implementing the approved
accommodations, please contact the Student Affairs Management Office / Registrar Office
promptly for coordination.
We appreciate your cooperation in supporting an inclusive and accessible learning environment.
Should you require further clarification, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Kind regards,
8
B. FORM 2: ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATION CONFIRMATION LETTER
(Student Notification Letter)
Date: [DD Month YYYY]
Reference No.: [Case ID]
To: [Student Name]
Student ID: [Student ID]
Subject: Confirmation of Approved Academic Accommodation
Dear [Student Name],
We refer to your request for Academic Accommodation submitted on [submission date].
Following a review by the Student Affairs Management Office and the Registrar Office, we are
pleased to inform you that your request has been approved, subject to the terms outlined below.
Approved Accommodation(s):
[List of approved accommodations]
Duration: [e.g., Semester 1, AY 2025–2026 / Until further review]
Please note that:
• These accommodations are provided to support equitable access to learning, and do not
modify academic standards or learning outcomes.
• You are encouraged to discuss implementation logistics with your course instructors, if
needed.
• Accommodation arrangements may be reviewed or adjusted should your circumstances
change.
If you have any questions or require further support, please contact the Student Affairs Management
Office / the Registrar Office.
We wish you a successful academic semester.
Sincerely,